Add April newsletter (#98)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-april-2021.rst

> .. post:: April 5, 2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. post:: April 6, 2021
```

   :tags: newsletter
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from April.

Read the Docs newsletter - April 2021
=====================================

This is the first of our monthly newsletters, in which we would like to
openly share with you the most relevant updates of Read the Docs,
offer a summary of what new features we shipped to our users
during the previous month,
and share what things we will be focusing on in the near future.

Company highlights
------------------

-  We have a new colleague! `Juan Luis <https://blog.readthedocs.com/archive/author/juan-luis-cano-rodriguez/>`_
   will be working with us as Developer Advocate, with a focus on fulfilling
   the goals of `the CZI grant we were
   awarded <https://blog.readthedocs.com/czi-grant-announcement/>`_,
   improve our public facing documentation,
   and spread the word about our service.

> -  xxx we saw an increment of X % page views

Reviewer 2: This should be updated before publishing

Author: Wooops good catch.

Author: Updated

   can see the availability history and current status of our infrastructure.

New features
------------

-  There is a `new support form <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/support.html>`_
   in case you need to send us a request related to your project or
   account, like asking for more resources, change the project slug, and
   so forth.
-  You can now build your project using Python 3.9 by setting your build
   image to ``testing``. Please `open an
   issue <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/new>`_
   if you find any problems with it.
-  Now `all newly created MkDocs projects use the latest version of mkdocs by
   default <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7869>`_.
   Existing projects can specify a specific version, but won't automatically
   be upgraded.
-  We expanded a few areas of our user documentation: we added `a brand
   new guide on reproducible
   builds <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`_,
   considerably improved our `guide on using
   conda <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/conda.html>`_,
   and `started recommending MyST for writing Markdown with

>    Sphinx <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-sphinx.html#using-markdown-with-sphinx>`_.

Reviewer 2: Think https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7891 is a good new improvement to mention here :)

Author: Good one! Done :shipit:

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs
Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_ and `Ethical Ad Server
Changelog <https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/page/developer/changelog.html>`_.

Current focus & known issues
----------------------------

-  We have had some availability issues with our commercial hosting for the past
   few weeks. This was caused by massive I/O load spikes on our web servers,
   causing increased CPU contention and slower web requests. We tracked the issue
   down to a background process that was doing a lot of reads from our cloud
   storage. We have changed our infrastructure so background tasks and web
   requests are processed by different servers, which has addressed the stability
   issues.
-  We were made aware of an open redirect on documentation pages via

>    a report to our `security` address. This was present in our codebase for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   a report to our ``security`` address. This was present in our codebase for the
```

   last 2 releases, and was fixed in a deployment on Thursday April 1. We'd like
   to thank Splunk and the Cryptography project for reporting this issue through
   proper channels. Please always follow our `security reporting guide
   <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/security.html>`_ to report potential
   security issues.

Upcoming features
-----------------

> -  Anthony will work on releasing version 1.0 of ``sphinx_rtd_theme``

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could link to the github profile on each name? Since someone outside the project doesn't know any of us p:

Author: Sounds good! I was hesitant on what to do here, since we store a website associated with each user in `conf.py`. But linking GitHub profiles here is a good addition I think.

.. post:: April 6, 2021
   :tags: newsletter
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from April.

Read the Docs newsletter - April 2021
=====================================

This is the first of our monthly newsletters, in which we would like to
openly share with you the most relevant updates of Read the Docs,
offer a summary of what new features we shipped to our users
during the previous month,
and share what things we will be focusing on in the near future.

Company highlights
------------------

-  We have a new colleague! `Juan Luis`_
   will be working with us as Developer Advocate, with a focus on fulfilling
   the goals of `the CZI grant we were
   awarded <https://blog.readthedocs.com/czi-grant-announcement/>`_,
   improve our public facing documentation,
   and spread the word about our service.

> -  The average daily pageviews went up by 9.4 % from the previous month.

Author: I'm getting it from Google Analytics, yes. Will add a short comment for clarification.

-  We have `a new status page <http://status.readthedocs.com/>`_ so you
   can see the availability history and current status of our infrastructure.

New features
------------

-  There is a `new support form <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/support.html>`_
   in case you need to send us a request related to your project or
   account, like asking for more resources, change the project slug, and
   so forth.
-  You can now build your project using Python 3.9 by setting your build
   image to ``testing``. Please `open an
   issue <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/new>`_
   if you find any problems with it.
-  Now `all newly created MkDocs projects use the latest version of mkdocs by
   default <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7869>`_.
   Existing projects can specify a specific version, but won't automatically
   be upgraded.

> -  We expanded a few areas of our user documentation: we added `a brand

Reviewer 3: We could mention here that the correct guide to contribute is now `install.html` instead of `standards.html` :smile:

See https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7994

Author: On it

Reviewer: This could perhaps use it's own section, noting Docker Compose being the new recommended method.

Author: Done!

   new guide on reproducible
   builds <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`_,
   considerably improved our `guide on using
   conda <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/conda.html>`_,
   and `started recommending MyST for writing Markdown with
   Sphinx <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-sphinx.html#using-markdown-with-sphinx>`_.
-  We added the possibility to declare `publicly visible environment
   variables <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7891>`_.

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs
Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_ and `Ethical Ad Server
Changelog <https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/page/developer/changelog.html>`_.

Current focus & known issues
----------------------------

-  We have had some availability issues with our commercial hosting for the past
   few weeks. This was caused by massive I/O load spikes on our web servers,
   causing increased CPU contention and slower web requests. We tracked the issue
   down to a background process that was doing a lot of reads from our cloud

>    storage. We have changed our infrastructure so background tasks and web

Reviewer 3: I think the read were from disk not storage, IIRC

Reviewer: Yea, I know, but the issue appeared to be reading from storage (since the data isn't on disk). I noted it was EBS reads, which are the networked disks. That's why it's a mystery.

   requests are processed by different servers, which has addressed the stability
   issues.
-  We were made aware of an open redirect on documentation pages via
   a report to our ``security`` address. This was present in our codebase for the
   last 2 releases, and was fixed in a deployment on Thursday April 1. We'd like

>    to thank Splunk and the Cryptography project for reporting this issue through

Reviewer 3: We could link to them here.

Reviewer 2: Don't think we have a link to the auditor https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/blob/master/docs/security.rst#version-5140, but we could link to the security page or to the github thing after deploy https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/security/advisories

Author: On it

   proper channels. Please always follow our `security reporting guide
   <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/security.html>`_ to report potential
   security issues.

> Upcoming features

Reviewer 3: I was thinking if there is a better/more generic word instead of "features", since there are some in this list that I think are not features. Maybe "Upcoming work"?

Reviewer: Roadmap? Focus?

Author: Yeah, I was thinking about this as well but couldn't come up with a better name. "Roadmap" sounds a bit more long term to me, and I'm not in love with "Focus" either. "Coming soon" sounds a bit too informal I guess. "Next steps"? "Current priorities"?

Reviewer: I think this is fine for now, and we can adapt in the future as we figure it out.

-----------------

-  `Anthony`_ will work on releasing version 1.0 of ``sphinx_rtd_theme``
   with some changes and deprecations, and outline a plan for future
   releases. He will also be working on our dashboard redesign, which we hope
   to launch in public beta soon.

> -  On the EthicalAds side, `David`_ will focus on more customized ad
>    targeting and improvements for the reporting interface.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-  On the EthicalAds side, `David`_ will focus on improving our contextual ad targeting
   and improvements for the reporting interface.
```

This is super minor but I just want to make sure folks realize this is contextual targeting not creepy behavioral targeting.

-  Our new hire, `Juan Luis`_, will work with scientific projects to
   improve their documentation and migrate it to Read the Docs, and
   `start drafting a Sphinx tutorial for
   newcomers <https://github.com/orgs/readthedocs/projects/93>`_.
-  `Manuel`_, on the other hand, will focus on `Single Sign-On
   Authentication for our commercial
   site <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/commercial/single-sign-on.html>`_,
   and improving the stability of our deploy process.
-  Installing custom system packages is a very common request, so
   `Santos`_ will be working on improving the build configuration, as
   well as formalizing a v3 of our Embed API.
-  And finally, on the commercial side, we’ll work on allowing more
   fine-tuned privacy controls on builds created from pull requests.

Considering using Read the Docs for your next Sphinx or MkDocs project?
Check out `our documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_ to get started!

.. _Anthony: https://github.com/agjohnson
.. _David: https://github.com/davidfischer
.. _Eric: https://github.com/ericholscher
.. _Juan Luis: https://github.com/astrojuanlu
.. _Manuel: https://github.com/humitos

> .. _Santos: https://github.com/stsewd

Reviewer: I was going to suggest this 👍  -- good way to have it carry over :)

.. post:: April 5, 2021
   :tags: newsletter
   :author: Juan Luis

>    :location: Madrid

Author: Done!

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      xxx

Read the Docs newsletter - April 2021
=====================================

xxx

Company highlights
------------------

-  We have a new colleague! Juan Luis will be working with us as
   Developer Advocate to …
-  xxx we saw an increment of X % page views
-  We have `a new status page <http://status.readthedocs.com/>`__ so you
   can have a glance at how our service is working.

New features
------------

> -  There is a `new support form <https://readthedocs.org/support/>`__ in

Reviewer: I'd like this to the docs page, so it works for both .org/.com

Author: I just saw that there's also https://readthedocs.com/support/ for logged in users, but not sure what are you suggesting here?

Reviewer: Linking to https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/support.html -- which links out to both sites.

Author: Oh, right 👍🏽 Done!

   case you need to send us a request related to your project or
   account, like asking for more resources, change the project slug, and
   so forth.
-  You can now build your project using Python 3.9 by setting your build
   image to ``testing``. Please `open an
   issue <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/new>`__
   if you find any problems with it.

> -  We added the possibility to use the latest version of MkDocs. `Let us

Reviewer: I believe this is on by default for new projects, but we can double check that in the admin.

Reviewer 2: yeah, this is on by default for new projects. Note that users were able to use the latest version of mkdocs, it just wasn't the default version (they needed to use a requirements file with `mkdocs==1.1.x`)

   know <https://readthedocs.org/support/>`__ if you want to enable it
   for your project.
-  We expanded a few areas of our user documentation: we added `a brand
   new guide on reproducible
   builds <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`__,
   considerably improved our `guide on using
   conda <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/conda.html>`__,
   and `started recommending MyST for writing Markdown with
   Sphinx <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-sphinx.html#using-markdown-with-sphinx>`__.

> Current focus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current focus & known issues
```

-------------

-  xxx commercial site reliability
-  xxx security

> Upcoming features

Reviewer 5: Linking to a specific GitHub issue for each item, if it exists, would be nice to improve community involvement and increase transparency.

Author: Added some links when appropriate, will keep adding them as soon as I get some extra pointers. Thanks for the suggestion!

-----------------

-  Installing custom system packages is a very common request, and we
   plan to offer new configuration keys so users can do it.

> -  We will be drafting a roadmap to drop support for Python 2.7. If your

Reviewer: This isn't prioritized, so we shouldn't talk about it yet.

.. post:: April 5, 2021
   :tags: newsletter
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from April.

Read the Docs newsletter - April 2021
=====================================

This is the first of our monthly newsletters, in which we would like to
openly share with you the most relevant updates of Read the Docs,
offer a summary of what new features we shipped to our users
during the previous month,

> and advance what things we will be focusing on for the following weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and share what things we will be focusing on in the near future.
```

Company highlights
------------------

-  We have a new colleague! `Juan Luis <https://blog.readthedocs.com/archive/author/juan-luis-cano-rodriguez/>`_
   will be working with us as Developer Advocate, with a focus on fulfilling
   the goals of `the CZI grant we were
   awarded <https://blog.readthedocs.com/czi-grant-announcement/>`_,
   improve our public facing documentation,
   and spread the word about our service.
-  xxx we saw an increment of X % page views
-  We have `a new status page <http://status.readthedocs.com/>`__ so you

>    can have a glance at how our service is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   can see the availability history and current status of our infrastructure.
```

New features
------------

-  There is a `new support form <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/support.html>`__
   in case you need to send us a request related to your project or
   account, like asking for more resources, change the project slug, and
   so forth.
-  You can now build your project using Python 3.9 by setting your build
   image to ``testing``. Please `open an
   issue <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/new>`__
   if you find any problems with it.

> -  Now `all MkDocs projects use the latest version by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Now `all newly created MkDocs projects use the latest version of `mkdocs` by
```

>    default <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7869>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   default <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/7869>`_. Existing projects can specify a specific version, but won't automatically be upgraded.
```

   and `started recommending MyST for writing Markdown with
   Sphinx <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-sphinx.html#using-markdown-with-sphinx>`__.

> 

Reviewer: We should link to our changelog here: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html
```suggestion

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_ and `Ethical Ad Server Changelog <https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/page/developer/changelog.html>`_.
```

Current focus & known issues
----------------------------

> -  xxx commercial site reliability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  We have had some availability issues with our commercial hosting for the past few weeks. This was caused by massive I/O load spikes on our web servers, causing increased CPU contention and slower web requests. We tracked the issue down to a background process that was doing a lot of reads from our cloud storage. We have changed our infrastructure so background tasks and web requests are processed by different servers, which has addressed the stability issues. 
```

> -  xxx security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  We were made aware of an open redirect on documentation pages via a report to our `security` address. This was present in our codebase for the last 2 releases, and was fixed in a deployment on Thursday April 1. We'd like to thank Splunk and the Cryptography project for reporting this issue through proper channels. Please always follow our `security reporting guide <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/security.html>`_ to report potential security issues. 
```

Upcoming features
-----------------

-  Anthony will work on releasing version 1.0 of ``sphinx_rtd_theme``
   with some changes and deprecations, and outline a plan for future

>    releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   releases. He will also be working on our dashboard redesign, which we hope to launch in public beta soon. 
```

-  On the EthicalAds side, David will focus on more customized ad
   targeting and improvements for the reporting interface.
-  Our new hire, Juan Luis, will work with scientific projects to
   improve their documentation and migrate it to Read the Docs, and
   `start drafting a Sphinx tutorial for
   newcomers <https://github.com/orgs/readthedocs/projects/93>`_.
-  Eric will be split between `hiring a frontend
   developer <https://blog.readthedocs.com/job-frontend/>`_,

>    `the CZI grant <https://blog.readthedocs.com/czi-grant-announcement/>`_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   doing project management on `the CZI grant <https://blog.readthedocs.com/czi-grant-announcement/>`_,
```

>    and Ads improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and improving ad performance for our EthicalAds publishers.
```

-  Manuel, on the other hand, will focus on `Single Sign-On
   Authentication for our commercial
   site <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/commercial/single-sign-on.html>`_,
   and improving the stability of our deploy process.
-  Installing custom system packages is a very common request, so
   Santos will be working on improving the build configuration, as

>    well as our Embed API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   well as formalizing a v3 of our Embed API.
```

-  And finally, on the commercial side, we’ll work on allowing more
   fine-tuned privacy controls on builds created from pull requests.

Considering using Read the Docs for your next Sphinx or MkDocs project?

> Check out `our documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out `our documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_ to get started!
```
